so the deal is that it's sometimes very
hard to find
out who's having the emotion when you're
like deeply empathetic right so I call
empathy it's like being with somebody
without being in somebody but often
times we find ourselves in somebody so
the classic example of this is that I uh
I had this uh CEO that I was working
with and super logical super logical and
would just make these like really
really great arguments and I would just
buy into these arguments that they were
making and then one day I'm like wait a
second that that didn't make any
sense that didn't make any sense at
all and so I started doing the research
and I found out actually that people who
are highly logical very very thoughtful
people often are more logically
inconsistent than people who aren't
aren't highly intellectual and they have
less of a capacity to see
it and I was like wow that's really
strange because they they have a harder
time emotionally feeling the
inconsistency is my theory and so
anyways what was happening is they were
very convicted to the thought they
really really really believed it and I
was empathizing and I was like yeah I'm
I also feel your conviction yes you must
be right and so I wasn't listening and
and now I can see this all the time I
can see these very emphatic very logical
people making and like watch news you
can see it making these completely
irrational but everybody's buying in
because they're empathetically they
bought in they're in the other
person and so this happens in lots of
different ways for instance somebody can
be really anxious and then all of a
sudden you're like wait I wasn't nervous
about that 10 minutes ago and now I'm
really nervous about that and so in a
relationship this can be incredibly
challenging as you're finding out right
now like it can be incredibly
challenging because you don't know where
you begin and they end like are they sad
or you sad like what's actually
happening here so there's a great trick
on this which is just putting 10% of
your attention 20% of your attention in
your
body as soon as you can feel your own
system so not all of your attention is
in them but attuning to
yourself then you can attune to them in
a real way when you're fully in them you
bought into their story youve bought
into their emotional experience you're
feeling their story you're feeling the
emotional experience but if you attune
to yourself and then you can see them
for what's actually going on oh they're
really convinced of this oh they're
illogical in this oh they're really sad
and then you can actually be with them
you don't have to be in them and the
weird thing is that what I notic is that
when people are bought into the story
like you see this all the time where
like friends are saying oh he's such an
and I was like yeah he's such an
and they all kind of like nod
and then they walk away from the
conversation they might feel a little
better for a little while but like 10 of
those conversations later they all feel
like all the time after these
conversations we've all had the friend
that's like I don't even want to go over
to the friend's house because they're
just going to about the boyfriend
again it's like the same old routine
story whereas if you're
actually with them oh I see that you
really think that they're an
what's going on like and being
curious about that instead of buying
into the story then there's just a lot
more room for the transformation which
is what fighting is all about fighting
is all about figuring out how you can
transform together and if you're in the
person it's very hard to see yourself
it's very hard to have any kind of
transformation so the other thing that
happens is that often times as we talked
about you have this relationship and
usually one person's more logical they
feel like they're more right and the
other person is more emotional and
they're more empathetic that's that's a
standard not always but it's a standard
Dynamic and so that's how that works to
some degree is that the empathetic
person is like oh they feel like they're
right and I'm feeling them so they must
be
right right and so that's like part of
the thing that makes it all so
convoluted so just putting some
attention in yourself allows you to be
in your
own system and this also helps you like
calm your nervous system down when
you're in the fight putting a little
attention in yourself separates you from
them in a way that allows you to
actually be with them and it calms your
nervous system so it's just like a
really cool hack especially for the
empathetic people like you
[Music]